It is time of the year again, the time where we sit down, whether with pen and paper or a digital notebook to start writing down on what we have learnt and what we are looking forward to as the new year unfolds. Every year are usually filled with the ups and downs, the laughs and tears as well as new friendships that comes and goes. But as we celebrate each new year and new beginnings, we also start realising how we grow one year older, likewise the same for our love ones.

As a reflective person myself, I ought to reflect on what a year it has been and what are 5 lessons that 2022 had taught me.

1. Be comfortable with being uncomfortable
2022 has been rough, one of the few roughest year for myself. Everything changed and pivot so quickly that got myself out of my comfort zone almost too quickly. As I went through the stages of the year, it seem like there was a sense of progress with the new challenges that came along. However, being comfortable was never the solution to all the problems that came along the way.

I realised that there will certainly be a level of discomfort to every challenges that we face. Especially with the new world of changes that we live in, 2022 had taught me that the new society and new world that we live in requires us to adapt to changes much faster as we would have hope to, and certainly to be comfortable with being uncomfortable is something that I hope to do better in 2023.

2. Moving on from the Pandemic
Covid-19 was 3 years ago. Yes 3 solid years ago and it is time we shift our mentality away from it. Whether it is working from home, blaming the economy on the pandemic or forming our mindset based on how our lives were 3 years ago, it is time to move on.

I’ve realised how terrible I am at time management and being myself as more commitments as activities become physical. I find myself procrastinating over the small task and feeling the challenge of progressing simply because I was living in the era of the pandemic. I realised that the time is up and it is time to move on from life at home, life where things came into a halt. It is indeed time to move on from the life 3 years ago and start restoring the good habits moving forward.

3. People come and go
The world is constantly moving and things changes all the time. We too, adapt to changes and so does our friends and people around us. We often hear this phrase over and over again “people come and go, that’s life” and never to understand it until we experience it ourselves.

Indeed, people come and go and made me realised that they are experiences in our lives and we should never treat them as a possession.

Be it family, friends or love ones, I hope to anyone reading this, stay strong and 2023 will be a better year for you. Yes people come and go, losing someone is definitely a painful experience but there are new experiences to be found and explored in 2023.

4. Everyone has their own goals and aspirations
Ever felt how busy everyone is and it is so tough to get your group of friends to meet ? Be it meeting a new group of friends or catching up with an old friend, it seem so challenging to get everyone together. No, it’s not that you are boring or not worth their time, but living in a city with so many things on also meant that different people are woking at different things all the time.

Just like how people come and go, they have their own goals and aspirations that they are hoping to achieve and sets of tasks to do at any point in time.

5. Experiences matters more
As I wrap up some of the lessons learnt, I would love to end it off with the most valuable lesson of 2022 for myself. That is valuing experiences more than anything else.

Be it failing at something or celebrating a win, we often are so heavily focused on the outcome that we totally forget about the largest chunk of everything — the experience. Whether it is going through a semester in school or starting your first job, we should take a step back to appreciate the experiences more than the outcome. Yes, the outcome is definitely important but what matters more is the experience.

Why ? Outcomes are typically a yes or no, a pass or fail, a poor or excellent, winner or loser. Those which happens in life all the time. But experiences ? They are often unique to each person and to me, that is what that matters more, that is what that made life truly one that is uniquely yours and not anyone’s else.

As 2022 comes to an end, to everyone and anyone that is reading this, thank you for reading up to here and wishing you a wholesome 2023 ahead!

I hope that this article has inspired you to do something similar too, to reflect upon how far we have came in the year 2022 and a pat on the back on surviving yet another year.

To a new year, a better 2023. happy new year !